blogc-template(7) -- blogc's template format
============================================

## DESCRIPTION

Template files are used as base to build output files by blogc(1). These files
can include variables, blocks, conditionals and iterators, that will directly
affect the output files.

The syntax of the template files is defined to be simple, without affecting the
content output. The syntax is somewhat inspired by Jinja2 syntax.

Templates must be valid UTF-8.

This manual describes the basic syntax and functionalities of template files.

## TEMPLATE BLOCKS

Template blocks are used to delimit content. The content inside a block will
be included in the output file (or not) if the parameters passed to blogc(1)
matches the requirements of the given block.

Blocks can be defined more than once, but can't be nested.

The available blocks are: `entry`, `listing` and `listing_once`.

### entry block

The content of an `entry` block is included in the output file when blogc(1)
is called without `-l` option, and with only one source file. It is used to
render a single entry of your blog/website. All the variables defined in the
source file are available inside this block (see blogc-source(7)), and will
override global variables (see blogc(1)).

This is how an `entry` block is defined:

    {% block entry %}
    This content will only be included when rendering a single entry.
    {% endblock %}

### listing block

The content of a `listing` block is included in the output file when blogc(1)
is called with `-l` option, and with zero or more source files. It is used
to create a listing of entries, and its content will be included once for
each given source file (in the order that the source files were provided to
blogc(1)). All the variables defined in the source files are available
inside this block (see blogc-source(7)), and will override global variables
(see blogc(1)). The variables will be provided by each file, when blogc(1)
iterates over them.

This is how a `listing` block is defined:

    {% block listing %}
    This content will be only included when rendering an entry listing, and
    will be included once for each entry.
    {% endblock %}

### listing_once block

The content of a `listing_once` block is included in the output file when
blogc(1) is called with `-l` option, and with zero or more source files. It is
like a `listing` block, but is only called once, and does not have access
to the local variables defined in the source files. It is useful to add
something before an entry listing.

The content of a `listing_once` block is included even if no source file is
provided.

This is how a `listing_once` block is defined:

    {% block listing_once %}
    This content will be only included when rendering an entry listing, but
    will be included only once.
    {% endblock %}

This is a 'real life' usage example of a `listing_once` block, supposing
that the `TITLE` variable is defined:

    {% block listing_once %}
    <ul>
    {% endblock %}
    {% block listing %}
    <li>{{ TITLE }}</li>
    {% endblock %}
    {% block listing_once %}
    </ul>
    {% endblock %}

## TEMPLATE VARIABLES

Template variables are used to provide content to templates from blogc(1)
command-line and from source files.

This is how a variable is defined in a template:

    {{ VARIABLE_NAME }}

The value of a variable will depends of its scope. Global variables provided
to blogc(1) are available everywhere in the templates. Local variables
provided in the source files are available only inside `entry` and `listing`
blocks, and will override global variables.

If a variable is not defined, it will be replaced by an empty string. blogc(1)
won't raise any error in this case.

Variables are always strings, even if the value of the variable is a number,
it is handled as a string by blogc(1).

### Variable formatters

blogc(1) can apply a formatter to a variable, depending on how it is called
in the template. If user append `_FORMATTED` to the end of the variable name,
a formatter will be applied, if available for the variable name:

- Date formatter: if variable name starts with `DATE_`, it is formatted with
  a strftime(3) format, provided by `DATE_FORMAT` variable. The `DATE_FORMATTED`
  "meta-variable" will return the formatted version of the `DATE` variable.
  If `DATE_FORMAT` is not provided, the original value will be returned.

An existing variable is not overrided by formatter. That means that if
`FOO_FORMATTED` variable exists, it won't be handled as a formatter
"meta-variable", and `FOO_FORMATTED` variable value will be returned normally.

### Truncated variables

blogc(1) can truncate the value of a variable to a maximum length, if it is
called with the maximum length appended to the end of the variable, like:
`FOO_5` will return the 5 first characters of the `FOO` variable, if bigger
than 5 characters.

This is applicable to the "meta-variables", like `DATE_FORMATTED`. It can
be truncated like: `DATE_FORMATTED_5`, that will return the 5 first
characters of the `DATE_FORMATTED` "meta-variable".

An existing variable is not overrided by the truncate syntax. That means
that if `FOO_5` variable exists, it won't be handled as a truncate
"meta-variable", and `FOO_5` variable value will be returned normally.

## TEMPLATE CONDITIONALS

Template conditionals are used to include content to the output, or not,
based on the value and existence of variables in the current scope.

The implementation of conditionals is simple, and each will just evaluate the
value of a single variable.

The available conditionals are: `ifdef`, `ifndef` and `if`. `else` statements
are supported.

### ifdef conditional

The content of an `ifdef` conditional is included in the output file when
the given variable is defined in the current scope.

This is how an `ifdef` conditional is defined in a template:

    {% ifdef TITLE %}
    This is title: {{ TITLE }}
    {% else %}
    Untitled entry
    {% endif %}

In this case, if the `TITLE` variable is defined, the content after the statement
is included. Otherwise, the content after `else` statement is included.

### ifndef conditional

The content of an `ifndef` conditional is included in the output file when
the given variable is not defined in the current scope.

This is how an `ifndef` conditional is defined in a template:

    {% ifndef TITLE %}
    Untitled entry
    {% endif %}

In this case, if the `TITLE` variable is not defined, the content is included.
`else` statements are supported here, even if it does not makes much sense to
be used this way.

### if conditional

The content of an `if` conditional is included in the output file when
the comparision between the given variable and the given static string or
variable evaluates to true in the current scope. The left operand of the
comparision *must* be a variable.

The available operators are: `==`, `!=`, `<`, `>`, `<=` and `>=`. The
comparisions are strcmp(3)-like.

This is how an `if` conditional is defined in a template:

    {% if TITLE == "My Title" %}
    Special description of "My Title"
    {% else %}
    Title is {{ TITLE }}
    {% endif %}

Or:

    {% if TITLE == DEFAULT_TITLE %}
    Title is the default title
    {% endif %}

## TEMPLATE ITERATORS

Template iterators are used to iterate over the value of a variable, that is handled
as a list.

The available conditionals are: `foreach`.

### foreach iterator

The content of a `foreach` iterator is included in the output file when the target
variable is defined, and is repeated for each item in the list parsed from the variable
value.

The variable value should be formatted as a space-separated list of items. Quotes are
not supported, as this is intended to work with identifiers, like slugs, and not with
arbitrary strings.

This is how a variable value would be formatted:

    item1 item2 item3

For more info about how to define variables, see blogc(1) and blogc-source(7).

This is how a `foreach` iterator is defined in a template:

    {% foreach TAGS %}
    <a href="/tag/{{ FOREACH_ITEM }}/">{{ FOREACH_ITEM }}</a>
    {% endforeach %}

Where `TAGS` is the variable with space-separated list of items, and `FOREACH_ITEM`
is the variable defined by blogc(1), that will store the item value for a given
iteration.

If the value of the `TAGS` variable is "item1 item2 item3", this template is
rendered 3 times, one for each item value.

The `FOREACH_ITEM` variable can be truncated, like:

    {% foreach TAGS %}
    <a href="/tag/{{ FOREACH_ITEM }}/">{{ FOREACH_ITEM_5 }}</a>
    {% endforeach %}

## WHITESPACE CONTROL

Users can control how whitespaces (space, form-feed (`\f`), newline (`\n`),
carriage return (`\r`), horizontal tab (`\t`), and vertical tab (`\v`)) are
handled before and after statements delimited with `{%` and `%}` sequences,
respectively.

Adding a minus sign (`-`)  after a `{%` sequence (`{%-`) will remove whitespaces
before the sequence and after the last non-whitespace character before the sequence.

Adding a minus sign (`-`)  before a `%}` sequence (`-%}`) will remove whitespaces
after the sequence and before the first non-whitespace character after the sequence.

## BUGS

The template content is handled by handwritten parsers, that even being well
tested, may be subject of parsing bugs. Please report any issues to:
<https://github.com/blogc/blogc>

## AUTHOR

Rafael G. Martins &lt;<rafael@rafaelmartins.eng.br>&gt;

## SEE ALSO

blogc(1), blogc-source(7), strcmp(3), strftime(3)
