blogc-toctree(7) -- blogc's "table of contents" tree support
============================================================

## DESCRIPTION

blogc(1) generates a "table of contents" tree for every source file, out of
its content headers, that is available for usage as a `{{ TOCTREE }}`
template variable. The tree is composed by lists of links for the headers,
and is usually placed right before the content, as an index.

## USAGE

For a source file with the following content:

    TITLE: Some Title
    -----------------
    # Header 1

    Some content.

    ## Header 2

    More content.

    ### Header 3

    Content.

A template block with the following content:

    {% block entry %}
    {{ TOCTREE }}
    {% endblock %}

Would generate output similar to this:

    <ul>
        <li><a href="#header-1">Header 1</a></li>
        <ul>
            <li><a href="#header-2">Header 2</a></li>
            <ul>
                <li><a href="#header-3">Header 3</a></li>
            </ul>
        </ul>
    </ul>

The depth of the tree can be controlled using the `TOCTREE_MAXDEPTH` variable,
that may be defined globally (see blogc(1)) or for each source file (see
blogc-source(7)). Setting this variable to `0` disables the generator.
Setting this variable to a positive number will limit the number of tree
levels to such value. The default value is `-1`, which means no maximum depth.

Please note that the depth is evaluated from the lower header level available
in the content. This means that if a source file only have level 2 and level 3
headers, and `TOCTREE_MAXDEPTH=1`, only headers with level 2 are included in the
"table of contents" tree.

For a source file with the following content:

    TITLE: Some Title
    TOCTREE_MAXDEPTH: 1
    -----------------
    ## Header 2

    Some content

    ### Header 3

    More content

With the same template presented before, would generate output similar to this:

    <ul>
        <li><a href="#header-2">Header 2</a></li>
    </ul>

## BUGS

Please report any issues to: <https://github.com/blogc/blogc>

## AUTHOR

Rafael G. Martins &lt;<rafael@rafaelmartins.eng.br>&gt;

## SEE ALSO

blogc(1), blogc-source(7), blogc-template(7)
